README.md, before:

[![linux zen kernel](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/35/Tux.svg)](https://github.com/zen-kernel/zen-kernel)

# Gikeud
> GIt KErnel Updater Daemon

Gikeud is a python3 daemon which automate git pull for git [zen-kernel](https://github.com/zen-kernel/zen-kernel) (for the moment)
every interval (can be tweaked). It will list all available branch or kernel for update. So it can detect local branch checkout,
new installed kernel (retrieve from /lib/modules/), new running kernel. It can, also, detect external/manual pull and adapt
its interval. It intend to be run as a root service using /etc/init.d/ but for debugging puproses it can be run in a terminal. 
Any way, it as to be run as root (for the moment).

It uses dbus to expose informations to user space tools and it have an already written client (trival).
With this client (gikeud-cli), you can retrieve informations about, for exemple, available kernel depending
on which is available from git and which have been installed. And more (also more to come).

I'm using it with [conky](https://github.com/brndnmtthws/conky) to display some informations. But it have no 
dependencies against conky. So it's up to you to do whatever you want to do with these informations and from
whatever program (as long as it use dbus or gikeud-cli output).


## Dependencies

* [python](https://www.python.org/) >= 3.5 (tested: v3.6.x - v3.7.7, recommanded: v3.7.x)
* [pydbus](https://github.com/LEW21/pydbus)
* [GitPython](https://github.com/gitpython-developers/GitPython)
* [inotify_simple](https://github.com/chrisjbillington/inotify_simple)


## Installation / Usage

1. Clone the repo (--recursive because it have shared libs):
```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Jjeje007/gikeud.git
```
2. Copy the dbus configuration file to authorize dbus request:
```bash
cp gikeud-dbus.conf /usr/share/dbus-1/system.d/
```
3. Install dependencies using emerge or pip.

### If you just want to test it:

1. Run it (i recommand to activate debug):
```bash
./main -d
```

### To use as a daemon:

1. Copy init file:
```bash
cp init /etc/init.d/gikeud
```
2. Edit lines:\
    command=\ 
   To point to: /where/is/your/git/clone/repo/main.py\
   And:\
    command_args=\
   To suit your need, more information:
```bash
./main --help
```
3. Run the daemon:
```bash
/etc/init.d/gikeud start
```

### About logs and debug

Daemon have several logs all located in /var/log/gikeud/\
If you have troubles, check first /var/log/gikeud/stderr.log and /var/log/gikeud/debug.log (if debug is enable: -d)\
But the best way, is running by hand in a terminal (so not using /etc/init.d/).

Daemon and terminal mode write pull log to:\
/var/log/gikeud/git.log

All logs are autorotate.

## Developpement Status

This is a work in progress so i haven't yet planned to make a release.\
The API is still in developpement and it's not yet stabilized.\
My priority is to stabilize daemon API.

## Meta

Venturi Jerôme – jerome.venturi@gmail.com

Distributed under the [GNU gpl v3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).

## Bugs report

Please open an issue and don't forget to attach logs: stderr.log and debug.log. 

## Contributing

Pull requests and translations are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Commit message:

Update readme and add informations about git submodule

README.md, after:

[![linux zen kernel](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/35/Tux.svg)](https://github.com/zen-kernel/zen-kernel)

# Gikeud
> GIt KErnel Updater Daemon

Gikeud is a python3 daemon which automate git pull for git [zen-kernel](https://github.com/zen-kernel/zen-kernel) (for the moment)
every interval (can be tweaked). It will list all available branch or kernel for update. So it can detect local branch checkout,
new installed kernel (retrieve from /lib/modules/), new running kernel. It can, also, detect external/manual pull and adapt
its interval. It intend to be run as a root service using /etc/init.d/ but for debugging puproses it can be run in a terminal. 
Any way, it as to be run as root (for the moment).

It uses dbus to expose informations to user space tools and it have an already written client (trival).
With this client (gikeud-cli), you can retrieve informations about, for exemple, available kernel depending
on which is available from git and which have been installed. And more (also more to come).

I'm using it with [conky](https://github.com/brndnmtthws/conky) to display some informations. But it have no 
dependencies against conky. So it's up to you to do whatever you want to do with these informations and from
whatever program (as long as it use dbus or gikeud-cli output).


## Dependencies

* [python](https://www.python.org/) >= 3.5 (tested: v3.6.x - v3.7.7, recommanded: v3.7.x)
* [pydbus](https://github.com/LEW21/pydbus)
* [GitPython](https://github.com/gitpython-developers/GitPython)
* [inotify_simple](https://github.com/chrisjbillington/inotify_simple)


## Installation / Usage

1. Clone the repo (--recursive because it have shared libs):
```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Jjeje007/gikeud.git
```
2. Copy the dbus configuration file to authorize dbus request:
```bash
cp gikeud-dbus.conf /usr/share/dbus-1/system.d/
```
3. Install dependencies using emerge or pip.

### If you just want to test it:

1. Run it (i recommand to activate debug):
```bash
./main -d
```

### To use as a daemon:

1. Copy init file:
```bash
cp init /etc/init.d/gikeud
```
2. Edit lines:\
    command=\ 
   To point to: /where/is/your/git/clone/repo/main.py\
   And:\
    command_args=\
   To suit your need, more information:
```bash
./main --help
```
3. Run the daemon:
```bash
/etc/init.d/gikeud start
```

### About logs and debug

Daemon have several logs all located in /var/log/gikeud/\
If you have troubles, check first /var/log/gikeud/stderr.log and /var/log/gikeud/debug.log (if debug is enable: -d)\
But the best way, is running by hand in a terminal (so not using /etc/init.d/).

Daemon and terminal mode write pull log to:\
/var/log/gikeud/git.log

All logs are autorotate.

### About git submodule

This project use shared lib from git submodule. If you want to automatically pull submodule
when you run 'git pull' in git's folder project then you should run:
```bash
git config --global submodule.recurse true
```
to enable it globally. Or use:
```bash
git pull --recurse-submodules
```
each time.

## Developpement Status

This is a work in progress so i haven't yet planned to make a release.\
The API is still in developpement and it's not yet stabilized.\
My priority is to stabilize daemon API.

## Meta

Venturi Jerôme – jerome.venturi@gmail.com

Distributed under the [GNU gpl v3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).

## Bugs report

Please open an issue and don't forget to attach logs: stderr.log and debug.log. 

## Contributing

Pull requests and translations are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
